our_story_begins.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Our Story Begins
permalink: /story_begins
nav_order: 4
---

# Our Story Begins
{: .no_toc }

Paper Story is a roleplaying game rooted in the design of the classic Paper Mario games, allowing you to take those familiar worlds and tell your own stories within them.

If you want to talk about or play Paper Story, feel free to join us on the Discord!  
[https://discord.gg/AUQJmKH5pf]()  
And if you stumbled onto this game and don't know where to look for more 
information, you can always find it in its home at Itch.  
[https://joy-games.itch.io/paper-story]()

For those of you new to roleplaying, TTRPG's are known as either tabletop or table-talk roleplaying games. They have common roots with their digital cousins, but are quite a bit different where it counts.

Basically, one player acts as Game Master – equal parts referee and storyteller, this player controls the entire world of NPC's and oversees its rules. All the other players are responsible for their own characters and their actions.  
_Completely_{: .underlined } responsible. The only real constraints you have are what seems reasonable to your game and the people you play with.

As you might expect, these games are a lot more flexible by nature. You have the opportunity to literally play a role, and it's generally expected that you make choices that are consistent with the role of your character – even if they're not strictly speaking what a 'good' player would do.

There are many more write-ups that go into deeper detail than this with respect to the big-name RPG's – Dungeons and Dragons, World of Darkness, Savage Worlds, to name a few.  
If that generally sounds like a lot of fun, I'd highly recommend you look into some of those games, and of course have fun with Paper Story!

Commit message:

Version 1.6.2 WIP
- Paper Story 1.6.2 and its rules were applied to all existing pages. Certain errors/typos were also fixed from the original release.

our_story_begins.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Our Story Begins
permalink: /story_begins
nav_order: 4
---

# Our Story Begins
{: .no_toc }

Paper Story is a roleplaying game rooted in the design of the classic Paper Mario games, allowing you to take those familiar worlds and tell your own stories within them.

If you want to talk about or play Paper Story, feel free to join us on the Discord!  
[https://discord.gg/AUQJmKH5pf]()  
If you prefer scrolling on the web to flicking through a book, Paper Story has its very own wiki!
[https://paperstoryttrpg.github.io/en/]()
And if you stumbled onto this game and don't know where to look for more 
information, you can always find it in its home at Itch.  
[https://joy-games.itch.io/paper-story]()

For those of you new to roleplaying, TTRPG's are known as either tabletop or table-talk roleplaying games. They have common roots with their digital cousins, but are quite a bit different where it counts.

Basically, one player acts as Game Master – equal parts referee and storyteller, this player controls the entire world of NPC's and oversees its rules. All the other players are responsible for their own characters and their actions.  
_Completely_{: .underlined } responsible. The only real constraints you have are what seems reasonable to your game and the people you play with.

As you might expect, these games are a lot more flexible by nature. You have the opportunity to literally play a role, and it's generally expected that you make choices that are consistent with the role of your character – even if they're not strictly speaking what a 'good' player would do.

There are many more write-ups that go into deeper detail than this with respect to the big-name RPG's – Dungeons and Dragons, World of Darkness, Savage Worlds, to name a few.  
If that generally sounds like a lot of fun, I'd highly recommend you look into some of those games, and of course have fun with Paper Story!
